Team Members: Kaiwen Bian, Weijie Zhang

**Project 3 Write-up**

For project 3, we created an interactive data visualization to explore the relationship between GDP growth and electricity energy generation across different countries. We combined line and area plots with tooltips to illustrate trends and distribution in the data. The motivation of this project is to enhance the viewing experience for mixed-type data visualization and allow audiences to explore the interesting patterns between GDP growth and electricity energy generation over time. 

For the line plots, we encoded the year into the x-axis and the GDP growth rate into the y-axis. We used line plots to show the overall trend of the distribution. We transformed our raw data, which is the absolute value of GDP, into GDP percentage growth rates, calculated relative to the first year available data. Countries or lines are distinguished by different encoded colors. The tooltip functionality also allows for additional clarity among different lines. 

For the area plots inside the tooltips box, we encoded the year into the x-axis and the electricity generation amount into the y-axis. There were 6 area plots, corresponding to the 6 types of electricity generation energy sources. We used only the minimum and maximum tick values for both axes to keep the plots simple and straightforward. For the tooltip, we want to focus on showing the overall distribution of each energy source for better and easier comparison across different distributions. 

Our main interactive feature is the mouse tooltips. We implemented our tooltip such that it will highlight a specific line when the mouse hovers near the line. This allows for easier interaction and line selection as the mouse doesn’t need to be exactly on the line. The tooltip will highlight the line by graying out and shading out other lines and pop up the tooltip box. The tooltip box, which includes the 6 area plots and other information about the line, will move with the mouse and adjust its relative position near the edges of the plots. Data points are represented by dots in both the line charts and the area plots. The dot allows for easier comparison between GDP growth and electricity generation in a particular year. Users can “fix” a particular line in place by left-clicking once and cancel by left-clicking again. This interaction feature is helpful for focused exploration of a particular distribution of a country, which allows the users to explore how increases/decreases in GDP growth rate might be associated with increases/decreases in electricity generation for a country. We included the data sources at the bottom of the plot and interaction instructions in the subtitle for transparency. 

For the development process, we spent roughly around 15 hours per person to make this visualization. Kaiwen was responsible for dataset preprocessing, transformation, and line chart creation. Weijie was responsible for the mouse tooltip functionality and the area charts. We found that adding the mouse tooltip feature and putting the area plots inside the tooltip box is the most time-consuming and tricky. It becomes easier and more manageable as we are more familiar with the logic of making interactive visualizations in d3 and javascript. 
